<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Transmission Breakdowns:  Balance Sheet Recessions and Monetary Policy</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000037C3" class="level1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac4c391cc288b777a0cc3121f49e39fbba85efc6e"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000037C4" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037C4" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a42747efc3d6f9ca323420181e384b3964d4dbdbe"><span class="pagebreak" id="P70010170200000000000000000037C5" title="329" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037C5" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Transmission Breakdowns:  Balance Sheet Recessions and Monetary Policy</h1></header>
<section class="objectiveset" id="P70010170200000000000000000037C6" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037C6" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a78057fd3a60a294fd1f43badd804132a7458a89b">
<ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist" id="P70010170200000000000000000037C7" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037C7" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a8072fa511e8acde93575a441d18799d6ae3d056c">
<li class="objective" id="P70010170200000000000000000037C8" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037C8" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a9348dbd8c04004d6b82b5a9d6f9c653c9bf5f69d"><p id="P70010170200000000000000000037C9" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037C9" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a08a1e9f31b7688de813efbfad709162bbe6e9f97"><span class="number">11.4</span> Explain what blocks monetary transmission mechanisms, and how quantitative easing can overcome a balance sheet recession.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000037CA" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037CA" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a08019debe768806cc18cf070f997c474aa5705da">Monetary policy succeeds when consumers and businesses respond to changing interest rates with changing spending patterns, and banks adjust loans and demand deposits when reserves change. But the macroeconomic players don’t always cooperate, and monetary policy can break down, as it did during the Global Financial Crisis.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000037CB" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037CB" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aee37c6b526d9372ef24181cc470652e39b695f3d">When the U.S. real estate bubble burst in 2008, the value of mortgage-backed securities plunged. Investors and banks, holding suddenly almost worthless assets, were forced to sell other assets to meet their debts. Panicked selling led to bank failures, business bankruptcies, and plunging stock market values. Real GDP started falling, and unemployment rose to over 10 percent in the United States and in Canada. The Global Financial Crisis had begun.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000037CC" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037CC" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a691be2e8db133759dcc28c7f587c2244099cd25b">Recessions are often triggered by a decrease in business investment spending, falling net exports, or rising interest rates. Not the Global Financial Crisis. The recession of 2008–2009 is also referred to as a <i>balance sheet recession</i> — a contraction caused by the collapse of asset prices. A balance sheet — for businesses, banks, or individuals — shows assets on one side (what you own or earn) and debts or liabilities on the other side (what you owe or spend). When the value of the assets you own falls, you need to cut back on what you spend or owe to restore balance. This is a problem for monetary policy.</p>
<section class="notice" id="P70010170200000000000000000037CD" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037CD" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac5b3e9718c45c9e017dce4bd112056779c2d65c3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000037CE" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037CE" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aef7711c846d2b4a58b8c0202ef5fb737a5082a83"><span class="label">Note</span></h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000037CF" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037CF" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a29061cfb9ab6d1c29271a786ca9bf2f249f858f5">In a balance sheet recession, individuals and businesses focus on paying down debt and are reluctant to borrow or spend. Even when monetary policy lowers interest rates, the economy remains in recession.</p>
</section>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000037D0" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037D0" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a323cb44ee6bcc8ae7934d4512dda31532def7a18">Central banks around the world, including the U.S. Federal Reserve and the Bank of Canada, responded to the Global Financial Crisis as you would expect from reading this chapter. With a recessionary gap opening, they used open market operations to buy bonds and lower the target interest rate, hoping generally lower interest rates would stimulate borrowing, spending, and aggregate demand.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000037D1" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000037D1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a6da26cac86fd74577b2662142aac603a8e55f5ad">When the Bank of Canada changes its interest rate target, it almost always does so slowly, 25 basis points (a basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent, so 25 basis points is 0.25 percent) at a time, and on only eight dates a year. Bankers have a justifiable reputation for being conservative in all ways — wearing conservative dark blue suits and taking conservative, moderate actions. Slow and steady, the bankers say, wins the race and keeps the economics car running smoothly and safely.</p>
</section></body></html>