<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Economics  Out There: Europe’s “Austerians” Need a Lesson on Multipliers and Macroeconomics</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000003D14" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/abf2449fa4905893ea613a1885e1ad7c8a90f6945"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000003D16" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D16" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a469b3e26e82b7f23e33376e62514bf2fed9070c7"><span class="label">Economics </span><i>Out There</i>: Europe’s “Austerians” Need a Lesson on Multipliers and Macroeconomics</h1></header>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_2" id="P7001017020000000000000000003D15" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D15">
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D19" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D19" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a87590ce67aa0348e9cc7d450247e0c4c032ced9e">When governments around the world used expansionary ­fiscal policy to counter the Global Financial Crisis and ­rescue national banking systems, budget deficits skyrocketed, especially in Europe. Many policymakers, including those at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), became alarmed, and argued that governments must reduce their deficits. These “austerians” — supporters of fiscal austerity — insisted that governments cut spending and increase taxes. They believed that balanced budgets would restore confidence, business investment, and stimulate the depressed economies.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D1A" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D1A" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad38a9d0ac4473fbc5bd1a56d6c4a30c51ccf9b9b">Many countries had IMF loans, and felt pressure to ­follow the austerian advice. Governments cut spending, laid off public servants, and stopped buying from the private ­sector. Decreased spending means decreases incomes in the circular flow. This is a negative demand shock, with multiplier effects. A cut in government spending causes an even larger decrease in GDP.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D1B" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D1B" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a0cbab89c57471c9658e12ebe4772cf19c159add6">After years of austerity policies and little improvement in the European economies, the IMF Chief Economist, Olivier Blanchard, made a remarkable admission of their mistake. We “significantly underestimated the increase in unemployment and the decline in domestic demand” from austerity policies. The IMF discovered that the multiplier for government spending was about 1.5, much larger than they had believed. That means every $1 cut in government spending reduced GDP by $1.50.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D1C" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D1C" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a70ff11c26dbc27a2cd9c935498e8ae21f293b0f2">As Professor Christopher Ragan notes, it is sad that so many European governments “have forgotten or never ­understood” basic macroeconomic concepts like the circular flow and multipliers, and “millions of their countrymen are now paying the economic price.”</p>
<div class="source" id="P7001017020000000000000000003D1D" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D1D" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a70635016c94ab7b5d21fd6e40b178650d94cb847"><p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D1E" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D1E" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa8db3038dae0080c3fc5db6b531937da952ab01f"><span class="label">Sources: </span>Based on Neil Irwin, “An Amazing Mea Culpa from the IMF’s Chief Economist on Austerity,” <i>Washington Post</i>, 3 January 2013; Christopher Ragan, “Why Europe’s ‘Austerians’ Need a Lesson in Macroeconomics,” <i>Globe and Mail</i>, 16 July 2013.</p></div>
</aside>
</section></body></html>