<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>World Prices for Canadian Resource Exports</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000031D1" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a2f7458bb9aebd41cb282ad886aabebcf805a14f6"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000031D2" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000031D2" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af998edf92254ac2e0dc660afbd0d88d15d2f6485">World Prices for Canadian Resource Exports</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000031D3" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000031D3" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad560a47bcb777e070fb82f16de20506bf21b0dbf">Canada is a major exporter of oil, gold, potash, nickel, diamonds, and other resources. Resource prices are set in worldwide markets. There are no separate Canadian prices for these resources. When the world price of oil, for example, rises, non-Canadians will require more Canadian dollars to buy the now more expensive Canadian oil. Rising world prices for Canadian resource exports increases the demand for Canadian dollars. But this does not trigger a coordinated change in the supply of Canadian dollars. The effect raises the price of the Canadian dollar.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000031D4" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000031D4" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ae5b6fb087a31b949758e71e05ad7696100b7530d">I hope you are feeling at least a little confused by this explanation. After all, in the explanation of inflation rate differentials, when prices of Canadian exports rise, demand for exports <i>decreases</i>, decreasing demand for Canadian dollars. With relatively cheaper imports available, the supply of Canadian dollars increases, to demand more U.S. dollars to buy U.S. imports. The Canadian dollar depreciates.</p>
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000031D5" class="notice" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000031D5" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a6f5227bd1673cad9246b3019ed9d953515dc92f4"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000031D6" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000031D6" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/abb5c8fb971dc24d85f65029a653732ee735f9753"><span class="label">Note</span></h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000031D7" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000031D7" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aff1bba475ea2972038d00316675fc35c195be545">Rising world prices for Canadian resource exports causes the Canadian dollar to appreciate relative to non-resource producing currencies.</p>
</section>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000031D8" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000031D8" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a09eb209fcecd25f868ffd4fe124c5a47e3d7d8f1"><span class="pagebreak" title="289" id="P70010170200000000000000000031D9" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000031D9" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>The crucial difference between these explanations is that resource prices are set worldwide, not in Canada alone. The differential inflation rate explanation is based on <i>differences</i> in prices and inflation rates. Most Canadian exports have different prices from substitute products produced in other countries. When Canadian exports become more expensive, buyers switch to cheaper substitutes elsewhere. But a change in the worldwide price of oil applies to <i>all</i> countries. There is no cheaper oil somewhere else. So buyers, paying higher prices, demand more Canadian dollars to buy Canadian oil. The Canadian dollar appreciates relative to the U.S. dollar.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000031DA" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000031DA" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/afc333a38b8b5785ceab670439dd123b318d3521c">The same upward pressure on exchange rates applies to all countries that are major exporters of resources. When oil prices rise, the Canadian dollar usually appreciates relative to the U.S. dollar, but not against currencies of other oil-exporting countries such as Mexico, Venezuela, or Russia. Their currencies also appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar. So with rising world oil prices, the Canadian dollar appreciates against the currencies of non–oil-exporting countries, but not against currencies of other oil-exporting counties.</p>
</section></body></html>