<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>International Trade Politics</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000004211" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a401b1e452c8b7daaba5bf82f8f1164b4a739f023"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000004212" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004212" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ab6d4f0209c3eec029628180f79ce29ee5c518775"><span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000004213" title="400" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004213" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>International Trade Politics</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004214" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004214" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a8ae9a0ba72d2cfc8b24af0356e07c151a9b4843f">The unequal distribution of gains and losses also affects international trade politics between counties. Through decades of negotiations between developed and developing countries, the WTO has tried to reduce protectionist policies and promote freer international trade. Such trade potentially benefits far more people than it harms. But the barrier is political pressure in many countries from import-competing industries protecting themselves from competition.</p>
<section class="notice" id="P7001017020000000000000000004215" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004215" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a5e1dce05310f3034a0279bd433d8a06fbe2dae4a"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000004216" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004216" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a118757d55b9f8ed1580ae1884303072f4686e909"><span class="label">Note</span></h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004217" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004217" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a78c8e9e1c739ddea3fe874896215fa70c82a4a5b">Political pressure in many countries from import-competing industries is a barrier to international trade negotiations.</p>
</section>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004218" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004218" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/afa4d67bcbae56219e32dc74b98ee457df207a9a0">Developed countries — especially the United States and some countries in Europe — want freer access to markets in the developing countries of Africa, Asia, and South America for the products and services they export. The list includes pharmaceuticals, intellectual property (patents on drugs that cannot be undersold by cheaper generic drugs), copyright on movies and music (not allowing pirated DVDs), and patents on inventions and technology so they cannot simply be copied. But the United States and European countries don’t want to remove domestic protectionist measures — especially domestic subsidies — from their agricultural and textile industries. The developing countries, which produce cotton, grains, and textiles, want access to those protected markets. Canada, while generally supportive of freer trade, is reluctant to remove subsidies to Canadian producers of dairy products, poultry, eggs, and wheat.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004219" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004219" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/abd64af8f996bb685bf985437c2f38ab8080e7ec9">The political influence in many countries of the affected, protected industries is the barrier to international trade negotiations.</p>
</section></body></html>