<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Standard of Living versus Cost of Living</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000021A4" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a81a5c07606b6ddf63a1552bb132c5421c573621f"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000021A5" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000021A5" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a4e44d7edcc54a8be57866f14ccf927a66e9d474c">Standard of Living versus Cost of Living</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000021A6" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000021A6" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa1cfe2175b4ff2d56558948a6a7fdebaed588d38"><a class="xref" href="fileP7001017020000000000000000001935.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001935" data-offlinesupport="yes"><span class="label">Chapter </span><span class="number">6</span></a> showed that changes in nominal GDP between two years can come from changes in the quantities of products and services the economy has produced, or from changes in their prices. Real GDP comparisons keep prices constant, isolating changes in quantities only. Quantities are important for measuring our standard of living.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000021A7" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000021A7" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a6ff1def3742e83c09c0f41384024d3ec4fd8d201">Changes in consumer spending between two years can come from changes in the quantities of products and services consumers buy, or from changes in their prices. To isolate the impact of changing prices only, the CPI keeps the quantities of products and services in the shopping basket constant from year to year. With quantities constant, all changes in the value of the basket are due to changes in prices only. Prices are important for measuring our cost of living.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000021A8" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000021A8" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac7a8fc7edfee79814c6b9eccd42c3d136d2b77bd">To isolate price changes, the Consumer Price Index keeps quantities c­onstant. But in the real world, as prices change, consumers change the quantities of products and services they buy. Also, consumers eagerly buy new and improved v­ersions of products and services. The inflation rate misses these two important trends.</p>
</section></body></html>