<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>The World Bank and International Monetary Fund</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000004253" class="level1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ab21a2d11cb9bdf8379de31ee8b234c13e2d11f3d"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000004254" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004254" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a515bcbf010922b08569824f9df8368da3364c876">The World Bank and International Monetary Fund</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004255" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004255" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/acfcde8bb7de4f2f3e7d2b223394d23e09ab5cdfa">At the end of World War II, the same 1947 international conference that created GATT also created the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). These international organizations — currently with 188 member nations — were created as the world struggled to recover from the devastation of war. Their mission was to support countries’ economic growth and development through trade.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004256" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004256" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ae4ec4af26810c9fca3b11cd99056086b1a73c738">The World Bank is not a traditional bank. Its name is an abbreviation for two related institutions — the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Agency (IDA). The World Bank describes its mission as “inclusive and sustainable globalization.” The IRBD focuses on reducing poverty in middle-income countries, while the IDA focuses on the world’s poorest countries. The World Bank does act like a bank in loaning money at low interest or no interest to countries for economic development projects.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004257" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004257" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a2e7263fdacdde3b770189fdc6edd8fe817ff6d15">The IMF describes its mission as fostering global monetary cooperation, securing financial stability, facilitating international trade, promoting high employment and sustainable economic growth, and reducing poverty.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004258" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004258" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad0608b6b5984bd46514d255440812952f95974db">You are probably wondering why anti-globalization protestors target these organizations, whose missions do not seem to match the criticisms. The story behind the protests comes from the policies that the World Bank and IMF use to achieve their missions.</p>
<!--EOF:P7001017020000000000000000004259-->

<!--EOF:P7001017020000000000000000004263-->

<!--EOF:P700101702000000000000000000426F-->

</section></body></html>