<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Limitations of Purchasing Power Parity</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000032EE" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af0dd08ff3d582cfedb7d8298789e39e186e6178c"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000032EF" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000032EF" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac2ea8c13a32dd984f75380a72760c3b2cb4de26a">Limitations of Purchasing Power Parity</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000032F0" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000032F0" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af604615d6bd788c66e0afa31260095f8e4dce9bb">Most descriptions of a currency as overvalued or undervalued refer to purchasing power parity. <i>PPP</i> is a rough estimate of where we expect exchange rates to settle eventually.</p>
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000032F1" class="notice" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000032F1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aafad1aedd01903cb370426bd91734c837f888126"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000032F2" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000032F2" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ae50eff167b0256dbbb38e9326f6afa17e32a8931"><span class="label">Note</span></h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000032F3" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000032F3" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a59499087f867dff641e602948da8b520c551dfa4">Purchasing power parity is the best available standard for predicting exchange rates, but it does not account for trading limitations and the major role of speculators in influencing exchange rates.</p>
</section>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000032F4" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000032F4" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa7997421775ac0524d68337be9455f4c80f054cb">There are major limitations to <i>PPP</i> as the anchor point for exchange rates. The <i>PPP</i> story assumes all products and services are traded easily and without cost across borders. In reality, there are many costs, including transportation and storage. As well, how many consumers cross borders (to the United States, let alone to Japan or China!) to get haircuts or buy books? Most importantly, the <i>PPP</i> story assumes demand and supply of dollars on the foreign exchange market are only to buy exports or imports. You now know that most demand and supply of currencies is for speculation.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000032F5" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000032F5" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a5c16bb03488a173ac46ec897165a048f8f6bd390">Despite these limitations, purchasing power parity is the best available standard for predicting where exchange rates are likely to settle.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000032F6" data-uri="M10_COHE5320_02_SE_C10.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000032F6" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a6c2dc67b49043437b6a08e5656793803ff11be92">The purchasing power parity exchange rate is <i>not</i> necessarily the “best” rate for the Canadian macroeconomic outcomes of full employment, stable prices, and steady economic growth. Because of the trade-offs of a lower or higher exchange rate, there is no single “best” value for the Canadian dollar. There is no exchange rate like the natural rate of unemployment that economists consider to be the “best” rate for the performance of the macro economy.</p>
</section></body></html>