<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>When Interest Rates Change, So Do Bond Prices</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000002CEE" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a4b1fb3dc99503302da6b83e9a3c385d82eb48f86"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000002CEF" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CEF" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a3abdff844894d5e770425af317e6a92e455f3f85"><span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF0" title="259" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CF0" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>When Interest Rates Change, So Do Bond Prices</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF1" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CF1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a02cfb2d1383417baa7c99b6493daf74cbf72e248">Suppose you bought the bond for $10 000. You loaned Ford $10 000 and Ford gave you a piece of paper — the bond. You are happy to receive the $500 payment at the end of the year (which translates into an interest rate of 5 percent), and Ford is happy to pay you $500 for borrowing $10 000 of your money.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF2" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CF2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a545f8d512eb72fe36f8137ebae71fb91e7d1f963">The next day, interest rates around the world rise to 10 percent. You can now get a bond that will pay you $1000 in interest on a $10 000 investment. All of a sudden, your Ford bond looks like a bad investment choice. You decide to sell your bond on the bond market, and use the money to buy a new bond that pays 10 percent interest.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF3" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CF3" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a6f30c5aef989df03815502b52793aa0fdb5b6f74">Unfortunately, you will not find a buyer for your bond at the price of $10 000. Now that other bonds yield a $1000 return on $10 000 at the end of a year, why would anyone buy your bond yielding only a $500 return on $10 000 at the end of the year? With no buyers for your bond, the only way to sell it is to lower the price you are willing to accept. At what new price can you sell your bond — find a buyer — on the bond market?</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF4" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CF4" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a8f29adc6b731a52b55df596413d7e04501b7cb9e">The market price of your bond will fall until the fixed return it offers at the end of the year amounts to a 10 percent interest rate — the same rate of return investors can get on other bonds now for sale. The price for your Ford bond falls to approximately $9545. If someone buys your Ford bond for $9545, at the end of the year she receives from Ford $10 500. That difference is a gain of $955. In percentage terms, that’s 10 percent.</p>
<section class="notice" id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF5" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CF5" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a1843386db217d71ede3ddac9ef2087e5935a9951"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF6" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CF6" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a54d878623f05e9afa8827297b0570372cb4437d4"><span class="label">Note</span></h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF7" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CF7" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/afcc88e413812fd8583bf1cb76aa70d20633bb6eb">Bond prices and interest rates are inversely related. When interest rates rise, bond prices fall. When bond prices fall, interest rates rise.</p>
</section>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF8" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CF8" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a31187e5b8c8c792032f18bf5f2366c9a0111ffd5">Don’t worry about the precise math in the calculations. That’s what accountants, calculators, and accounting software are for. The important fact to remember is that <i>when interest rates rise, the market price of bonds falls</i>. This inverse relation between bond prices and interest rates is the most important feature of all bond markets. Bond prices and interest rates are instantly and inversely connected. If interest rates rise, bond prices fall. If interest rates fall, bond prices rise.</p>
</section></body></html>