<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Even More Macroeconomics in Your Life</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000001775" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a9dfb4c93f58dd7a9432b7819041b921595607a81"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000001776" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001776" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa7c90f82d2288c7a50595dce03543f6b460b3672">Even More Macroeconomics in Your Life</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000001777" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001777" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a254573aa3d6d4678ca0cb82141d604bea9e6d7a5">Monetary policy and interest rates affect how easy or hard it is to get a loan, how much your monthly car lease rates will be, and how much you will pay for a mortgage or line of credit. Understanding how interest rates are determined will help you decide what a good mortgage interest rate is and which type of mortgage is best for you.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000001778" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001778" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a8cb910c6f58ae54bb31b15bac087002e2131cf33">The value of the Canadian dollar affects prices of exports and imports, which in turn affect over a third of all jobs in Canada. A fall in the value of the Canadian dollar makes Canadian exports cheaper for foreign buyers, increasing the production of Canadian exports, increasing Canadian GDP, and creating new jobs in export businesses. A rise in the value of the Canadian dollar makes cross-border shopping a better bargain for Canadians, makes imports like Hyundai cars or Samsung phones less expensive, and creates jobs in Canadian businesses that distribute imports. But the rising value of the Canadian dollar may eliminate the manufacturing jobs you may be training for.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000001779" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001779" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad950aaccd0b8bc38b7d36699fbf1207159fb8f1e">Fiscal policy changes taxes and transfers, which affects how much the government takes out of your paycheque and adds on at the cash register as sales taxes, as well as the benefits you receive if you are unemployed, disabled, or retired.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000177A" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000177A" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac011fe036c033fa0862d360e6fae3ef94befe813">Macroeconomics affects most parts of your economic well-being during your entire lifetime. Understanding the fundamentals of macroeconomics will help you make smart choices throughout your life.</p>
</section></body></html>