<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Economics  Out There: Globalization and Its Discontents</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P700101702000000000000000000426F" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a04845dd395e0b64648e02bd7f4acf9348f3076ac"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000004271" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004271" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a0a3b87bd61604fb2582f5b219d38dde3008f64ff"><span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000004272" title="404" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004272" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span class="label">Economics </span><i>Out There</i>: Globalization and Its Discontents</h1></header>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_2" id="P7001017020000000000000000004270" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004270">
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004275" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004275" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aff3555e47cd98103ed1bc0d179c4970a94aea141">Controversy over globalization and the roles of the World Trade Organization (WTO), World Bank, and International Monetary Fund (IMF) made a dramatic public appearance with raging street battles and huge demonstrations at the 1999 meeting of the WTO in Seattle, Washington. Conflict erupted at most major meetings of these organizations over the next few years.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004276" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004276" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a427b97cb6ac7a9ffa41757adebb4e563e0a380c2"><i>The Economist</i> magazine published an important “Survey on Globalization” in September 2001, in anticipation of the scheduled joint annual meeting of the World Bank and IMF. That meeting was cancelled in the wake of the September 11 attacks in the United States.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004277" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004277" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a62a9aa900639458ed7b1642ddbccf88e163f3ea6">Stiglitz’s book appeared in 2002 with much publicity, and prompted many responses. Two of the more notable responses were <i>In Defense of Globalization</i> (2004), by Jagdish Bhagwati, another Columbia University professor and columnist for <i>The New York Times</i> and <i>The Wall Street Journal,</i> and <i>Why Globalization Works</i> (2004) by Martin Wolf, a former senior economist at the World Bank and associate editor of the <i>Financial Times</i> in London.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004278" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004278" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af6d59dfd20485a723731f92b1536f790b2ca618d">Naomi Klein, a Canadian activist and columnist for <i>The Nation</i> and the <i>Guardian</i> published <i>The Shock Doctrine: The Rise of Disaster Capitalism</i> in 2007, continuing the controversy. Klein argues that America’s “free-market” policies have come to dominate the world through the exploitation of disaster-shocked people and countries.</p>
</aside>
</section></body></html>