<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Making Money by Making Money</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000002C4A" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af26971dd93c63bfd04b28ef3f910833943d0d032"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000002C4B" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C4B" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad1b83bfa91a54e7579d7a575d5e52fbbf65f06b8">Making Money by Making Money</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002C4C" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C4C" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac3623b304c327841ccf0bd55c74015c2a3a0eef3">There is much historical truth to the simple story of goldsmiths becoming bankers. Goldsmiths had secure safes that attracted depositors. Goldsmiths issued paper IOUs for gold, and also acted like banks. Once the public trusted and accepted paper notes issued by goldsmiths — acceptability is the key to money — goldsmiths could issue notes that were not fully backed by gold.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002C4D" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C4D" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aec1c4ae19fe5fdeb9c7bec43bc5b3851254c849f">Goldsmiths made loans, giving the borrower not gold but a paper note convertible into gold. In exchange, the borrower signed a contract to repay the loan plus interest at a future date. The borrower could use the goldsmith’s note as money since it was accepted as a means of payment.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002C4E" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C4E" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a94e22d2a64d1c7343e6aca2a308f641e6e3aafa5">The value of the paper notes in circulation was greater than the value of gold in the safes. The goldsmiths were relying on (you could say “banking on”) the very small probability that all depositors and borrowers would want to withdraw the gold at the same time. By making loans not backed by gold, the goldsmiths created money (acceptable paper notes) and made profits (interest) on the loans. For trust in the paper notes to continue, the goldsmiths had to hold enough gold in reserve so that when customers did show up with one of their paper notes and asked for the equivalent amount of gold, it was there.</p>
</section></body></html>