<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>1. Will Canada Go Bankrupt?</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000003D8B" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ae52a674b9ef1f849afa0141b2bee2d748628f771"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000003D8C" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D8C" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aac6e27250163599ffcfe9f53af58518bc378034e"><span class="number">1.</span> Will Canada Go Bankrupt?</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D8D" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D8D" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ae5dcbe0c5edd7b002c004a909b82c71fb14d640a">If you or I don’t repay our debts — pay off that credit card balance — we may go bankrupt, our credit rating will suffer, and it will be difficult to borrow money in the future. Is Canada at risk of bankruptcy and a negative credit rating because since 1867 the country has never paid off the national debt?</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D8E" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D8E" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a0561bac290b917af2ca427733e13a11bfdcc31a2">This argument is largely a myth. The Government of Canada never has to pay back the national debt — it can simply refinance it. Here’s why.</p>
<section class="notice" id="P7001017020000000000000000003D8F" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D8F" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a4f4a191ead2fea25e7f6c53ef532295c92e3dbd9"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000003D90" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D90" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/affb9fab9c94c3aa96f59ab8f2419d37cbb711213"><span class="label">Note</span></h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D91" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D91" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a973f82b2cc7f91d3a6d6bbd3a44d768b2461992c"> The Government of Canada never has to pay back the national debt — it can simply refinance it.</p>
</section>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D92" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D92" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a7580c68579538c991f189cbde71d8f00aa477aa0">The argument that Canada must pay back the national debt is based on the idea that what is true for an individual must be true for the government. If an 80-year-old man walks into the bank with a small down payment and asks for a 25-year mortgage, the banker will laugh and say no. There is not much chance of the man living long enough to repay the loan.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D93" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D93" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a151f4ee6f7cbe0b4c0c52af7b0d4c175e24f3681">While the man is mortal and will die, the Government of Canada is ­effectively immortal. Politicians running the federal government come and go, but the country of Canada, its government, and the institutions of parliament remain. They have remained intact since Confederation and are expected to continue to do so.<span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000003D94" title="374" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D94" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span></p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D95" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D95" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad688827e10e144667c511a9f797aec859e98756d">The national debt is financed mostly by government bonds that have a 30-year maturity. Every year, some of those bonds come due and must be repaid. The Government of Canada repays them by issuing a new set of 30-year bonds and uses that newly borrowed money to pay off the old bonds. This is called refinancing the debt. Old debt is paid off with new debt. The only significant cost is the interest that must continue to be paid — a problem we will examine shortly. With refinancing, the national debt can stay in place indefinitely without repayment — as long as the bondholders trust the Canadian government will pay all bonds and interest payments that come due. That trust can disappear for countries that borrow too much, with expensive consequences.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D96" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D96" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a3d11503f264f0529da0574e2f4418b3923b1aae5">Following an economic crisis and deadly rioting, Argentina defaulted on its national debt in 2002. Since then, it has been difficult for Argentina to borrow money. Only Venezuela has been willing to lend Argentina money, but at high interest rates — 15 percent! More than 10 years later, Argentina is still suffering the consequences of its actions.</p>
</section></body></html>