<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>“Yes, Hands-Off” and “No, Hands-On” Agree! Markets Need a Central Bank</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000003896" class="level1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aacddd2acd4d6136d85928f5cc61034f2e3a06dc3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000003897" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003897" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a497af9ea4982869d2faff239f393be9a584f7ce4">“Yes, Hands-Off” and “No, Hands-On” Agree! Markets Need a Central Bank</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003898" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003898" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac20da754b014c369827ac5b74cb0e4dc71ad0ce8">It has been a while since I asked the fundamental macroeconomic question:</p>
<blockquote id="P7001017020000000000000000003899" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003899">
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000389A" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000389A" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a60867df1c7f551038859b47a7a11f730590e6b05">If left alone by government, do the price mechanisms of market economies adjust quickly to maintain steady growth in living standards, full employment, and stable prices?</p>
</blockquote>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000389B" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000389B" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a3ee8acba4c7878a6dbae6a4522912a8d1c9d0a94">Normally, there are two answers. The “Yes” camp says markets self-adjust, so government should keep hands off. The “No” camp says markets fail often, so there is a hands-on role for government. But, when it comes to the Bank of Canada’s role, there are more agreements between camps than disagreements.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000389C" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000389C" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a85101c1d33b78946cf1a417decb339ba6a3106cf">Both camps agree on the need for a government-like player like the Bank of Canada for a market economy to function properly. Both camps see three of the four roles of the Bank of Canada — issuing currency, acting as banker to banks, and acting as a banker to government — largely as the government’s role of setting the rules of the road. To gain the benefits of a monetary economy, we must have a banking system with a central bank that controls the rules of the road.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000389D" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000389D" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a3f43ae8ffd161c49184a3c9430950a493163e54f">Banks around the world are regulated through rules because they face a trade-off between profits and prudence. Without regulation, banks are tempted to take risks in pursuit of higher and faster profits that might lead to more bank failures. When banks fail, not only do bank owners lose money, but innocent, trusting depositors, who were not involved in the risky loan decisions, also lose their money. The Bank of Canada, by protecting the prudence of the banking system, is protecting investors and  depositors.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000389E" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000389E" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a195d5a689f12a83c653b11337decfac843869e48">One of the lessons of the Global Financial Crisis is the need for more government oversight of the financial system, with clearer rules of the road and protection for innocent depositors. While chartered banks are already regulated, many other major financial institutions, for example, the investment banks that created sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, are not.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000389F" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000389F" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a232ab5a6773c7e1d7634c6cbea1f3349b29f08f5">The Bank of Canada also protects the value of money by keeping inflation low and stable, allowing all markets, not just financial markets, to operate smoothly. Predictable prices mean all macroeconomic players can make smart choices in whatever markets they trade.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000038A0" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000038A0" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a83cfc8f9926de173e2a9c263870a7d255c36bfb3">On the fourth role of the Bank of Canada — conducting monetary policy — there are some disagreements between the two camps, but there is also a growing consensus around inflation target rules as a compromise.</p>
<!--EOF:P70010170200000000000000000038A1-->

<!--EOF:P70010170200000000000000000038A9-->

<!--EOF:P70010170200000000000000000038B0-->

<!--EOF:P70010170200000000000000000038BB-->

<!--EOF:P70010170200000000000000000038C9-->

</section></body></html>