<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Money Helps Markets Adjust</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000002DAC" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ab29ae053d61d35f6a7e3c5125210e2648b765fd6"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000002DAD" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002DAD" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa7847d5733a432634ead5b3f693c2ec0fe542226">Money Helps Markets Adjust</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002DAE" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002DAE" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af1f56e4404e09dddecce0919199edaf4faa716b7">When external supply shocks cause temporary mismatches between aggregate supply and demand, the “Yes — Markets Self-Adjust” camp believes that price adjustments in separate markets — input, output, international trade, and loanable funds markets — all work harmoniously to quickly restore the match between aggregate supply and aggregate demand.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002DAF" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002DAF" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa0cedc4f14feff94f4262e9b24ad85209ad054f7">Money, which makes savings possible, is the biggest aid helping the loanable funds market adjust. After suppliers sell products or services for money, they may save some money instead of demanding products and services. Savings are deposited in banks, increasing the supply of loanable funds. This causes the interest rate — the price of loanable funds — to fall. Falling interest rates encourage more consumer spending and business borrowing to finance more investment spending. Spending increases, offsetting the additional saving and restoring aggregate spending in output markets, making it equal to aggregate income earned in input markets.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002DB0" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002DB0" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af8e225159e95827afc37765babc793e932b71d2a">Money allows saving to flow easily through the loanable funds market to encourage business borrowing for investment spending. The economy quickly ends up with a match of aggregate supply and aggregate demand — just like the barter outcome — at potential real GDP and full employment. Money, according to the “Yes — Markets Self-Adjust” camp, <i>helps</i> markets quickly adjust to equilibrium.</p>
</section></body></html>