<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Quantitative Easing</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000003801" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a27d0f0f3ee03ce22cd2f6b2d03e2484b3414388e"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000003802" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003802" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a9544d2bf83b3a6204db5e4e91d280d804e30aa0a"><span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000003803" title="332" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003803" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Quantitative Easing</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003804" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003804" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a86f989ff50b89116bf02fcc554835558f26c1804">Bernanke decided to use a more powerful tool from his monetary policy toolbox — quantitative easing. <a class="keyword" id="P7001017020000000000000000003805" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003805" epub:type="keyword" href="../xhtml/fileP70010170200000000000000000044F0.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000046C4" data-offlinesupport="yes">Quantitative easing</a> floods the financial system with money by having the central bank buy high-risk bonds, mortgages, and assets directly from banks. By eliminating these liabilities from bank balance sheets and replacing them with cash assets, banks are in a better position to make new loans and new demand deposits, and increase the quantity of money. Quantitative easing succeeded in stabilizing the banking system and had some success increasing lending. But this tool carries risks of inflation further on down the road.</p>

<p id="P700101702000000000000000000380C" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000380C" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa7ae13365c5e5a6fde84ffb9708bd7ff2e09f477">Quantitative easing is similar to open market operations where the central bank buys bonds and pays with cash, which increases bank reserves. The difference is that the central bank is not buying government bonds, but riskier, private commercial assets directly from banks. This increases cash reserves in the banking system, allowing banks to increase loans, demand deposits, and the quantity of money. It produces the same result as open market bond purchases, but the central bank assumes more risk than with government bond purchases.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000380D" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000380D" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a1790c744925154718c7e7333ada5bc001f8122ca">When coming to the aid of banks with troubled balance sheets, central banks around the world, including the U.S. Federal Reserve and the Bank of Canada, played the role of lender of last resort (see <a class="xref" href="fileP7001017020000000000000000002BC3.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002BC3" data-offlinesupport="yes"><span class="label">section </span><span class="number">9.2</span></a>). The Bank of Canada’s policy as lender of last resort states: “In conditions of severe and unusual stress on the financial system...the Bank has authority to provide liquidity through outright purchases of securities issued by any Canadian or foreign entities, including non-financial firms.” The Bank of Canada used quantitative easing to provide cash (liquidity) to chartered banks to help avoid runs on banks and other difficulties in order “to avoid damaging the interests of unsecured creditors” — innocent depositors like you or me.</p>
</section></body></html>