<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Why Bonds Are Risky and Less Liquid Than Money</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000002CF9" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa45225e331d43a3766474e0f53ce4db5c7b3b786"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000002CFA" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CFA" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a38f4bab5636dfd52a57b389ec6e146275ba387d9">Why Bonds Are Risky and Less Liquid Than Money</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002CFB" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CFB" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/abb957e224cc9c6502466ff61a18d1ec34154f670">This instant and inverse relationship between bond prices and interest rates is why bonds are a risky and non-liquid form of saving. If interest rates change after you buy a bond, the price at which you can sell the bond changes. When interest rates rise, the price of the bond falls. If you want to convert your bond back to money by selling it, you receive less money than what you paid for it. Your savings take an unexpected fall in value. Bonds are inferior to money as a store of value when interest rates rise.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002CFC" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CFC" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aec71761c07ab61c77f76420a57ad0b120a92ad8b">When interest rates fall, the price of a bond you are holding rises. If you want to convert your bond back to money by selling it, you receive more money than what you paid for it. You make an extra, unexpected profit on your savings. Bonds are better than money as a store of value when interest rates fall.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002CFD" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002CFD" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad3ebb4a388972d5e309dc365f530e487c49d9787">If you hold a bond until its time period is up, you receive exactly what you were promised — the original value plus the fixed dollar amount payment. Changes in interest rates do not change the fixed dollar amounts bondholders receive. You receive both the original value and the fixed payments, as promised. The unexpected losses and gains come from selling bonds before their time period is up, something you might need to do for liquidity — because you need the money now to pay for products or services or to repay a debt.</p>
</section></body></html>