<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Canada Is a Trading Nation</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000040D8" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a28a3fef8f52471c94edfedd101d536dec23e33c4"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000040D9" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000040D9" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ab9d2d9b3c9ebfb1853c29c68394ff69cc9dbc1a9"><span class="pagebreak" id="P70010170200000000000000000040DA" title="389" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000040DA" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Canada Is a Trading Nation</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000040DB" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000040DB" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a698a49d496e8d61160440eded6c526002be7c757">If you look at Canada in <a class="xref" href="fileP70010170200000000000000000040AA.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000040AE" data-offlinesupport="yes"><span class="label">Figure </span><span class="number">13.1</span></a>, exports are 31 percent of GDP. Almost one out of every three dollars earned by Canadians comes from the sale of exports to the rest of the world. Imports, which do not contribute to Canadian GDP but do contribute to GDP in the rest of the world, are 33 percent of Canadian GDP. Notice how much more important international trade is to the Canadian economy than it is to the U.S. or Japanese economies. Even though the United States and Japan sell a much greater quantity of exports than Canada, their domestic economies are much larger. So exports as a percentage of GDP are smaller for the United States and Japan than for Canada. Canada is a trading nation, and our standard of living depends significantly on international trade.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000040DC" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000040DC" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa427328076ea9ec893654d6986a8b9e82ec6c292">Furthermore, 80 percent of our international trade is with one country — the United States. Much is at stake in our trade relations with the United States because a significant portion of Canadian GDP depends on trade with the United States. And because U.S. GDP is ten times bigger than Canada’s, Canada’s trade with the United States is much more important to us than the United States’ trade with Canada is to them.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000040DD" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000040DD" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a194cd2a543cd7faaaf6b9e670813406eb4df08ba">Since trade is voluntary, both Canada and the United States must believe they are better off as a result of international trade. How does that happen? where do the mutually beneficial gains from trade come from?</p>
</section></body></html>