<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>New and Better Products</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000021AC" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af4d1168df035e77d31e81dfa23edbefb4f7e5f49"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000021AD" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000021AD" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/acedee165d04e3c0331e88111b9a675d985b32b5c">New and Better Products</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000021AE" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000021AE" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a85fda374c948fb76e2d76999c4c6a6655ebd338d">The unchanged basket of the Consumer Price Index also misses the introduction of new products, and changes in quality of existing products. There is no easy way to compare the cost of living in a year when new products or services like the iPhone or tablet computers are introduced, to an earlier year when they didn’t exist.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000021AF" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000021AF" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a71c348ae5a04c4bd665a4788c0d035d6680c4e86"><span class="pagebreak" id="P70010170200000000000000000021B0" title="185" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000021B0" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Many businesses upgrade the quality of their products or services while keeping the price constant. But, the CPI basket doesn’t change. Even if a product in the CPI basket is improved to give more value and quality, the basket remains the same. For example, Apple’s pricing strategy is to introduce a model (like the MacBook Air) and keep the price constant. But every four months or so, Apple upgrades the quality of the model with a faster processor, a bigger hard drive, or more RAM, all for the same price. Because the CPI doesn’t capture these improvements in product quality, it again <i>overstates</i> increases in the cost of living.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000021B1" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000021B1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/acdd6907ff3472c3fa3d1e01e71a7694b191ec24e">Statistics Canada is aware of these unavoidable limitations of all price indexes, and updates the contents of the CPI shopping basket from time to time to reflect changes in consumer spending habits and changes in products. Nonetheless, the Bank of Canada estimates that the official inflation rate, based on the Consumer Price Index, <i>overstates</i> increases in the cost of living by about 0.5 percent. So an official inflation rate, for example, of 4 percent, translates into an actual increase in cost of living of 3.5 percent, but that is still just an estimate.</p>
</section></body></html>