<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>The Macroeconomic Connection</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000015EE" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aef9b7f8d35e10d03755faeed1074cdb828e3e6f8"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000015EF" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000015EF" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a804dc540ac007141dee54578f18b6010b4148e45">The Macroeconomic Connection</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000015F0" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000015F0" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af82525cd475b2bb6c43781794426dcb7a68dafa0">Microeconomics focuses on the interaction of demand and supply <i>in input markets alone</i> or <i>in output markets alone</i>.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000015F1" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000015F1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/adf03b1954468381bf88fd8cf4b84685613dc81ce">Suppose wages in the labour market — an input market — are higher than the equilibrium wage. Workers are eager to supply labour, but businesses are unwilling to hire workers at the higher wage. There is a surplus of labour. In the labour market alone, wages fall, restoring the balance between demand and supply, and coordinating the smart choices of households supplying labour with the smart choices of businesses demanding labour.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000015F2" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000015F2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad6eedc692f22ae680ccc417efbc25370ab368076">In output markets alone, price adjustments also coordinate the smart choices of consumers and businesses, balancing consumer demand with business supply of products and services.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000015F3" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000015F3" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a907b8cf050bd1ef1204827469e35f17411f5f093">Macroeconomics focuses on the <i>connections</i> between input and output markets and how those connections can break. Falling wages mean falling incomes. If you work 40 hours per week, and your wage falls from $20 per hour to $15 per hour, your weekly income falls from $800 to $600. Ouch! So your demand for products and services in output markets decreases. With decreased demand, businesses experience falling prices of outputs and, in turn, hire fewer workers.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000015F4" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000015F4" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa918ee369ea6d2b2a159f5114d5a26d35d51c590">The <i>connections</i> between input and output markets can block the coordination of smart choices. In the economy as a whole, income and spending depend on each other. Consumer spending is business income. Business spending is consumer income. If consumers and businesses both cut spending (as happened in the Global Financial Crisis), everyone’s income falls and unemployment increases. The smooth trips around the circular flow break.</p>
</section></body></html>