<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Opinions and Facts: Normative and Positive Statements</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000003E3D" class="level1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/afb0750c308d59c1e5f3bdb8ac92ba9500ce37943"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000003E3E" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003E3E" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a320e569ba9da4982702b6dc1b1a659b09a55b0a3"><span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000003E3F" title="378" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003E3F" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Opinions and Facts: Normative and Positive Statements</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003E40" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003E40" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a19901578248d7747e4f1a3de82067f921c6a496b">There is no right or wrong answer to the question, “What role should government play in our economy?” You might answer, “Government should play a hands-off role,” and your sister might answer, “Government should play a hands-on role.” The answer depends on your political values, and people have different values or opinions. These <i>normative statements</i> involve value judgments or opinions. Normative statements often use the word <i>should</i> and cannot be evaluated as true or false by checking the facts.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003E41" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003E41" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a73f92e27b01ad002b237e2bceec15b9f181d9bd8"><i>Positive statements</i> are about what <i>is</i>, rather than about what should be. Positive statements <i>can</i> be evaluated as true or false by checking the facts. An example of a positive statement is “The Chinese government plays a much larger role in Chinese society than does the Canadian government in Canadian society.” We can identify and measure all of the actions taken by the Chinese government and compare them to the actions taken by the Canadian government. If there are more in China, the statement is true. If there are fewer, the statement is false.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003E42" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003E42" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a8cd91d5d050373cbe106086d45ccc826dad13744">In contrast, the statement, “The government in Canada <i>should</i> play a larger role like the government in China” is a normative statement — an opinion. Notice the word <i>should</i>?</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003E43" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003E43" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aba3def41a78df242381cdb954909be93f56c4ed3">When you hear claims from politicians, or economists, identify if the ­statement is normative or positive. If it is a normative statement, you can agree or disagree. If it is a positive statement, look for the facts behind the claim to evaluate if it is true or false.</p>
</section></body></html>