<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Why Is Globalization Happening?</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000004284" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a874420623f67dad05182a3c1b3e6fdba18dbe7c1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000004285" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004285" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/afec4925db604a059a26274ab06851278323abc5c"><span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000004286" title="405" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004286" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Why Is Globalization Happening?</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004287" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004287" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aef16a293034fcc401fcdc734d0d48c74092b620a">The reason for the spread of integrated economic activity across borders is the same as it was for Jill and Marie. Voluntary trade is motivated by self-interest, profits from innovation, and mutually beneficial gains. Connections to bigger ponds in international markets provide new opportunities for gains, but also new competitors and new threats of creative destruction. There are winners and losers from globalization, just as there are winners and losers from trade within a country.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004288" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004288" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a7ee2319bc0b062141f63078a07c009b110ee6b1c">Self-interest is always a motive for expanded trade. The pace of globalization is speeding up due to falling costs for both transportation and communications technologies. It is quickly becoming cheaper and easier to connect markets among countries, in the same way that railroads did across Canada.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004289" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004289" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a10da61109aaeef9c4e89a00074cc609a0d5df9b6">Globalization is also speeding up from the elimination of government ­barriers to trade. Free-trade agreements among countries, decreasing tariffs, quotas, and domestic subsidies combined with efforts of the WTO, World Bank, and IMF to reduce protectionist policies impeding trade all speed globalization.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000428A" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000428A" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a64cfe234b23e81f9cd4abb9cc3f153cc2769eb80">Globalization itself — the integration of economic activities, across borders, through markets — is neither good nor bad. But the consequences of globalization for different groups can be good or bad.</p>
</section></body></html>