<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Demand-Pull Inflation</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000002299" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a4379781d7620a249a2c6e5d7580299f9b451e360"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700101702000000000000000000229A" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000229A" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aad9f172bec43e9d7ab9f9b8bbc0601ce24092eb2">Demand-Pull Inflation</h1></header>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000229B" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000229B" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a3af4693dd5c07c38206a6d77c286becd28339c1f">The story behind the Phillips Curve’s inverse relation between unemployment and inflation is basically the Alberta story.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000229C" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000229C" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a28ca0f1f7d61d54c7d0f3bdfb6a1e393646b3b07">For years corresponding to points on the top left of the Phillips Curve, the economy was booming, with rapid growth and low unemployment. During expansion years, the economy often produces output near potential real GDP, or even slightly above potential GDP. All inputs, including labour, are fully employed. There is no cyclical unemployment, and frictional, structural, and seasonal unemployment rates may fall below normal. Demand is greater than supply in input markets — there are shortages — putting upward pressure on business costs, including wages. Since incomes are also increasing with higher wages, demand for output is strong — people have more money and are buying more things — making it easier for businesses to raise output prices to match rising costs.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000229D" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000229D" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a136dbbef1b07ba6a8425dcb5aa1c8734cff6a6f7"><span class="pagebreak" id="P700101702000000000000000000229E" title="191" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000229E" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Demand plays the leading role in this story, and the overall price rises are called <a class="keyword" id="P700101702000000000000000000229F" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000229F" epub:type="keyword" href="../xhtml/fileP70010170200000000000000000044F0.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004569" data-offlinesupport="yes">demand-pull inflation</a>. Demand is the key force causing shortages and pulling up prices. There must also be an accompanying increase in the quantity of money.</p>

<p id="P70010170200000000000000000022A6" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000022A6" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad28900c285141426b0e0a07bf6462358340a0ec4">The story about the quantity theory of money, where a helicopter showered loonies to increase consumers’ incomes, was also a demand-pull inflation story. With increased incomes, consumers demanded more products and services. But with supply fixed at potential GDP, the increased demand created shortages. Competing consumers bid up prices, just as employers in Alberta bid up starting wages to $18 an hour.</p>
</section></body></html>