<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Economic Life Is Full of Shocks</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P700101702000000000000000000283A" class="level1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a4b9cfa85859ed151de96b25299603ac2fc5430c4"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700101702000000000000000000283B" data-uri="M08_COHE5320_02_SE_C08.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000283B" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a1cdb305e4796fa2b09430b865af42c9dfcbb94f5"><span class="pagebreak" id="P700101702000000000000000000283C" title="228" data-uri="M08_COHE5320_02_SE_C08.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000283C" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Economic Life Is Full of Shocks</h1></header>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000283D" data-uri="M08_COHE5320_02_SE_C08.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000283D" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a2a8aaa7d1dedc4a42ac53d15c4ed6a41311ac167">In the real world, demand and supply shocks rarely happen one at a time — they usually happen together. For example, in the 1970s, the negative supply shock of rising oil prices combined with the negative demand shock of rising interest rates. In late 1990s, the positive supply shock of technology combined with the positive demand shock of increased exports. The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) among Canada, the United States, and Mexico allowed R.O.W. buyers in the United States and Mexico to demand more Canadian exports and increase aggregate demand.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000283E" data-uri="M08_COHE5320_02_SE_C08.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000283E" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a0cf3228814b3b2f9d0fa6efad2de500de6003ce0">Multiple shocks of the same type can also happen together. For example, there could be a negative demand shock of more pessimistic expectations ­combined with a positive demand shock of increasing GDP in R.O.W. In the late 1990s, a positive supply shock of digital technology combined with a positive supply shock of falling oil prices.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000283F" data-uri="M08_COHE5320_02_SE_C08.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000283F" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a21482fe936d0657e9b05af6aaf6b3ae2ba50b398">The impact on the economic performance targets of real GDP, ­unemployment, and inflation depends on the combined effects of the shocks. But to be able to work through these more complex scenarios, you still use the model of aggregate supply and aggregate demand. Break down the ­scenario into the separate effects of demand shocks and supply shocks, and then combine the results.</p>
<!--EOF:P7001017020000000000000000002840-->

<!--EOF:P7001017020000000000000000002844-->

</section></body></html>