<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Creative Destruction</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000041B1" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aafc261c15caf186cedae0ad01be743f62682e7dd"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000041B2" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000041B2" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a3a66e8e1d8f80152a42d7b8fd15d2e99dda73901">Creative Destruction</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000041B3" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000041B3" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a5bf0a6d3009b0a830e35823a832743459f66a87d">Connections to new markets bring connections to new competitors. A local producer may have been a big fish in her small, local pond. But increased trade has her now swimming in bigger ponds with bigger fish. Some fish, and some businesses, don’t survive.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000041B4" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000041B4" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ad79ad161704a55e27f08288fe34a56cf7aacddf0">Businesses compete in markets by figuring out new ways to beat their rivals. Businesses do this through cutting costs, developing new technologies of ­production, inventing new products, exploiting economies of large-scale ­production, or finding new or cheaper sources for raw materials and resources.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000041B5" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000041B5" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a52b2aa89504d489dc613eb6e45dda264a646fa25">Over time, these competitive innovations, which result from the endless quest for profits, make businesses and labour more productive and improve living standards and product choices for consumers. This is Schumpeter’s process of <i>creative destruction</i>, described in <a class="xref" href="../xhtml/fileP7001017020000000000000000001AAB.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001AAB" data-offlinesupport="yes"><span class="label">section </span><span class="number">6.3</span></a>. Adam Smith’s invisible hand channels the restless energy of profit-seeking self-interest into the ­public good of rising living standards. That is the positive, creative part of creative destruction.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000041B6" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000041B6" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ade2d4b4671b8f611949a09bd6d763a5dd78b6726">The gains from specialization, trade, competition, and innovation also have a down side — destruction of less productive, higher-cost, and less ­popular products and businesses. Nineteenth-century Quebec wheat farmers and Manitoba textile companies went out of business in the face of new, more productive Canadian competition. Many twenty-first century auto workers in Ontario lost their jobs to robotic assembly lines in South Korea. These failed businesses and lost jobs are the opportunity costs of the gains from trade.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000041B7" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000041B7" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ae20735deb6090103ef39f41c7feb731e97e9216b">The jobs lost through trade, competition, and innovation come under the <a class="xref" href="../xhtml/fileP7001017020000000000000000001F48.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001F48" data-offlinesupport="yes"><span class="label">Chapter </span><span class="number">7</span></a> definition of <i>structural unemployment</i> — unemployment due to ­technological change or international competition that makes workers’ skills obsolete in Canada.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000041B8" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000041B8" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/adad42707a51d2b4d04684edf740cdd8d7aac09f0">On the whole, consumers and businesses in Canada benefit from ­specialization, trade, and increased competition. Productivity and overall living standards improve. That is why we are so much better off than Canadians were 200 years ago. But trade creates winners and losers. The losers pay a high price for the changes brought on by increased specialization and trade.</p>
</section></body></html>