<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Economics  Out There: Should the Bank of Canada Worry about Inflation or Deflation?</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000038B0" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af9a237321b50fdaa0e026593064bb85adfa7b33d"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000038B2" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000038B2" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a69459bb4f10db8b4610c40fe09816fe8ea5f37a6"><span class="pagebreak" id="P70010170200000000000000000038B3" title="340" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000038B3" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span class="label">Economics </span><i>Out There</i>: Should the Bank of Canada Worry about Inflation or Deflation?</h1></header>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_2" id="P70010170200000000000000000038B1" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000038B1">
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000038B6" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000038B6" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/afddc196011f6adc45ef30e6ffb603da07185e3cd">While the central bank’s inflation target anchors inflationary expectations, deflation has been a bigger risk than inflation since the Global Financial Crisis. Inflation rates have been around 1 percent, at the bottom of the Bank of Canada’s inflation target range, and unemployment has remained stubbornly high. Glen Hodgson, Chief Economist of the Conference Board of Canada, argues that “deflation is very dangerous. It depresses aggregate demand and can suck the energy out of an...economy for decades.” With deflation, average prices keep falling. Consumers hold off on buying products and services since they will be cheaper tomorrow. Sales drop and businesses cut back production and employment. Wages fall as the economy contracts and unemployment increases. Should the Bank of Canada raise its inflation target?</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000038B7" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000038B7" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a89ae35879d95c5d62d1960a8158e3098a2b5aa92">A higher inflation target may avoid the problems of deflation and increase employment, but at the risk of unleashing inflationary expectations. The existing inflation target will contain inflationary expectations, but at the risk of deflation and prolonged unemployment. As Hodgson says “The advantages of a 2-percent inflation anchor...need to be weighed against the...risks of deflation...., raising the inflation target...may be a reasonable and responsible policy compromise.” As always, there is a policy trade-off.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000038B8" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000038B8" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a837f378e48cec32cd8d3248bdafc32a2f234093d">Inflationary expectations? Deflation? The Bank of Canada must keep both in sight when setting its target inflation rate.</p>
<div class="source" id="P70010170200000000000000000038B9" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000038B9" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a35f6f8f73f8ef859a82313815171cbd03bcbb498"><p id="P70010170200000000000000000038BA" data-uri="M11_COHE5320_02_SE_C11.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000038BA" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aa1e1c634f7df19a0e6df6e3a3bb484f403596d1c">Sources: Based on http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/economy/economy-lab/is-the-bank-of-canadas-2-per-cent-inflation-target-too-low/article16238207/; http://www.conferenceboard.ca/press/speech_oped/14-01-08/is_the_bank_of_canada_s_2-per-cent_inflation_target_too_low.aspx</p></div>
</aside>
</section></body></html>