<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Bank Profits versus Prudence</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000002C7B" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a4451179f23e415c147d8aa3fa8c972a24a359202"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000002C7C" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C7C" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a1b3a613dde21737752caba87604da8293ae04bde"><span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000002C7D" title="256" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C7D" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Bank Profits versus Prudence</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002C7E" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C7E" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac738c29cf88f549c349586084aa3a9df8d18641d">The everyday risks of fractional-reserve banking and loans are that borrowers will default on their loans — not be able to pay back the bank. Banks try to protect against this risk by requiring <i>collateral</i> on loans — property pledged as security for repayment of the loan. When a bank loans you money for a car or mortgage on a house, the bank owns the car or the house, as collateral, until you pay off the loan. If you default on the loan, the bank sells the property to recover the value of the loan. Banks also charge higher interest payments on loans that they consider to be riskier.</p>
<section class="notice" id="P7001017020000000000000000002C7F" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C7F" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a297e22d9555e6299ec39e932a7bfa9a88092659f"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000002C80" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C80" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac88e101b6fd0cef47e1573316da7a177b698deb1"><span class="label">Note</span></h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002C81" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C81" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ab3f7979d3d87f0998cb9121c7c925340cc7c0625">Banks face a trade-off between profits and prudence. A smaller fraction of reserves and higher-risk loans may make more bank profits, but at the cost of giving up safety and risking customers’ deposits and trust.</p>
</section>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002C82" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C82" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a2fd8df8bac18607a23ee60751300dae8431349fa">With fractional-reserve banking and loans, there is a trade-off between profits and prudence or safety. Banks make profits by loaning money at interest. The more deposits that they turn into loans, the greater their potential profits. And higher risk loans earn the most interest.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000002C83" data-uri="M09_COHE5320_02_SE_C09.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000002C83" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a0d4cf4cc02992e720c2f0cd9a87970b6490010d2">But each loan creates an equivalent demand deposit. More loans mean more demand deposits created for borrowers’ accounts. More demand deposits with unchanged reserves makes it riskier for banks to be able meet the demands of depositors for withdrawals. Prudence is necessary to maintain the trust of depositors and meet their needs for withdrawals, and more prudence means holding more reserves, making fewer loans, and earning lower profits. This is the tension in any banking system — between profits and prudence — and why banks are regulated around the world. Without regulation, more banks will be tempted to take risks in pursuit of profits that might lead to the failure of the bank if loans are not repaid. When banks fail, bank owners justifiably lose the money they have invested in the banking business. But innocent, trusting depositors, who did not make the risky loan decisions, also lose their money.</p>
</section></body></html>