<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Output Gaps, Unemployment, and Inflation</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000001CD9" class="level1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a34c521527af7ec7bb55e89f2ce6cc40ac6bebbc5"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000001CDA" data-uri="M06_COHE5320_02_SE_C06.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CDA" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a45c137de7da689cb57fc2dc24a8daa22b6277ffd">Output Gaps, Unemployment, and Inflation</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000001CDB" data-uri="M06_COHE5320_02_SE_C06.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CDB" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ae8c9ddcfbad558629ad555f27d0e95bf9edbb84f">The language of business cycles focuses on the ups and downs, highs and lows, of fluctuations in real GDP. There are two other important definitions that focus on fluctuations <i>around</i> potential GDP — the differences between real GDP and potential GDP.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000001CDC" data-uri="M06_COHE5320_02_SE_C06.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CDC" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a4da341a5b1209f2f941e78da6ea929a5b9b0c067">Look again at <a class="xref" href="fileP7001017020000000000000000001CAA.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CB6" data-offlinesupport="yes"><span class="label">Figure </span><span class="number">6.15</span></a>. When real GDP is below potential GDP, as it was for all of 2009, 2010, and the first two quarters of 2011, there are unemployed inputs. Labour, capital, land/resources, or entrepreneurship are not fully utilized, which is why actual GDP is less than potential GDP. Workers are unemployed, factories are sitting idle, and land is not being used. Economists call this a ­<a class="keyword" id="P7001017020000000000000000001CDD" data-uri="M06_COHE5320_02_SE_C06.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CDD" epub:type="keyword" href="../xhtml/fileP70010170200000000000000000044F0.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000046E2" data-offlinesupport="yes">recessionary gap</a> — when real GDP is below potential GDP. For any time period, we can measure the size of the recessionary gap as the vertical distance between potential GDP and real GDP. <a class="xref" href="fileP7001017020000000000000000001CAA.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CB6" data-offlinesupport="yes"><span class="label">Figure </span><span class="number">6.15</span></a> labels the recessionary gap for the fourth quarter of 2009, but a recessionary gap exists for every quarter when real GDP is less than potential GDP.</p>

<p id="P7001017020000000000000000001CE4" data-uri="M06_COHE5320_02_SE_C06.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CE4" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a0e4d9fdc03efa81e207a9ee3e278130065a4e3e6">There is an <a class="keyword" id="P7001017020000000000000000001CE5" data-uri="M06_COHE5320_02_SE_C06.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CE5" epub:type="keyword" href="../xhtml/fileP70010170200000000000000000044F0.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000045F1" data-offlinesupport="yes">inflationary gap</a> when real GDP is above potential GDP. From the expansion of the third quarter of 2005 to the fourth quarter of 2008, there was an inflationary gap. <a class="xref" href="fileP7001017020000000000000000001CAA.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CB6" data-offlinesupport="yes"><span class="label">Figure </span><span class="number">6.15</span></a> labels the inflationary gap for the third quarter of 2007. Not only are all inputs fully employed, the economy is working overtime. As you will learn, this overheated economic activity can cause inflation, hence the term <i>inflationary gap</i>. (You might be wondering, how can real GDP be above potential GDP when potential GDP is full employment? If so, good for you! The answer comes in the next chapter. But here is a hint — it depends on the precise definition of <i>full employment</i>.)</p>

<p id="P7001017020000000000000000001CEC" data-uri="M06_COHE5320_02_SE_C06.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CEC" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a74365a223f5c7137665b0a5c2669ccdb940419ce">Both recessionary gaps and inflationary gaps measure the difference between actual output (real GDP) and the full employment output of an economy (potential GDP). Economists refer to both as <a class="keyword" id="P7001017020000000000000000001CED" data-uri="M06_COHE5320_02_SE_C06.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001CED" epub:type="keyword" href="../xhtml/fileP70010170200000000000000000044F0.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000468B" data-offlinesupport="yes">output gaps</a>, which are calculated as real GDP minus potential GDP. For recessionary gaps, the output gap is negative (real GDP less than potential GDP). For inflationary gaps, the output gap is positive (real GDP greater than potential GDP).</p>

<!--EOF:P7001017020000000000000000001CF4-->

</section></body></html>