<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Government Failure</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000001661" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a10ce7e6a0fa6914200d23e44cdfba193513440fb"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000001662" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001662" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a30fd85e1541e112647043e80b515b17166a9f704"><span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000001663" title="116" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001663" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Government Failure</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000001664" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000001664" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a03a8909c6c8ef1c4e0d650b079fc7c5077aadcdb">It is also possible that government policy may <i>not</i> act in the public interest. Lobbying, campaign contributions, and political pressure can cause governments to act in the interests of businesses, labour organizations, or other special interest groups. Even when aiming for the public interest, government policymakers often lack timely and accurate information for making smart policy decisions. The complexity of the economy, the banking system, changeable expectations, and connections to the global economy make it easy for government policymakers to make “honest mistakes” when trying to solve complex, interconnected macroeconomic problems. When government policy fails to serve the public interest, it is called <a class="keyword" epub:type="keyword" href="../xhtml/fileP70010170200000000000000000044F0.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000045C0" data-offlinesupport="yes">government failure</a>.</p>

<p id="P700101702000000000000000000166B" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000166B" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a2e741b2d9bf4dd1c76a0d80197c3a25855a75bad">It is possible that the problems of business cycles or unemployment are caused by government failure — bad policy — not by the market economy. Government failure certainly contributed to the severity of the Great Depression. So even when we see the ups and downs of economic activity, the answer to the question, “If left alone by government, do markets quickly self-adjust?” may still be “Yes” if bad government policies <i>caused</i> the failure.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000166C" data-uri="M05_COHE5320_02_SE_C05.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000166C" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ab889af2421fe86c3797a5565f3bca4e938bf1e29">Economists often disagree. There is a joke that if you ask three macroeconomists a question, you will get five answers. So in sorting economists (and politicians) into only two camps — “Yes — Markets Self-Adjust” and “No — Markets Fail Often” answers to the fundamental macroeconomic question — I am simplifying their many differences. Let’s look at the two camps, and how their economics connect to politics.</p>
</section></body></html>