<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Sweatshops throughout History</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P700101702000000000000000000429C" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a0892e0066f54572684e919ac7f76284eac4be01f"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700101702000000000000000000429D" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000429D" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a2a7395acb16dfdbf95000a3e72089be2c549968e"><span class="pagebreak" id="P700101702000000000000000000429E" title="406" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000429E" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Sweatshops throughout History</h1></header>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000429F" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000429F" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a4ee69bb3e149df65aa755656f6b50effc49f9638">The story of workers migrating from farms to factory jobs is not new. In the original English cotton factories of the late 1700s, people with few opportunities moved from farms to the original sweatshops in cities. While the working conditions and pay were terrible, they were better than the alternative.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000042A0" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000042A0" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a502c188b6ebe98df9f367960151633ba3899029f">The same pattern repeated in the U.S. cotton industry in New Hampshire and Massachusetts in the 1800s, where many French Canadians worked. The pattern continued in the Japanese textile industry in the 1920s and in Korea and Taiwan in the 1970s and 1980s. In all of these countries, standards of living and working conditions improved over time. Some of those improvements came from governments playing a hands-on role, and some happened when the government took a hands-off position.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000042A1" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000042A1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aaba0825d3045d50fa81bb33ffcd61b4f6668c94e">As globalization connected the original British textile industry to new ­markets and new competitors, less competitive textile industries in older countries declined. Creative destruction created winners and losers. But since overall ­standards of living have continued to rise in the countries whose textile industries ultimately lost out to new competitors — first England, then the United States, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan — new and better-paying jobs were created in other export industries where the countries had a comparative advantage.</p>
</section></body></html>