<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Buried in Wool</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000042D5" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a69ca4b9514948a0ea5756280e76cea4c5a8a2ed1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000042D6" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000042D6" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ada67fbd56ea8b4e3a2ccf08d11be5266e872f2e6">Buried in Wool</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000042D7" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000042D7" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a944c5e7309eab82326a4b231480169ed487848a2">Protectionism in global trade is not new. In England in the 1600s — before the rise of the cotton textile industry — virtually all clothes were made of wool from domestic sheep. The British East India Company connected to new markets in India, and began importing hand-spun calico cotton into England. The new fabric was cheap, light, washable, colourful, and was an instant hit with consumers. Of course, local wool sales suffered, and the wool industry persuaded Parliament to pass protectionist measures. All students and professors at the universities were required by law to wear only wool garments, and corpses could only be buried wrapped in wool!</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000042D8" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000042D8" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/add5e4ca316cf60492820a998e3b414d7066c6264">A law in 1701 banned all imports of calico cotton (a quota of zero!). The wool industry thought it had won, but the innovative profit-seeking forces of creative destruction led English entrepreneurs to set up industrial cotton ­factories in England that eventually crushed the sales and political influence of the wool industry.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000042D9" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000042D9" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a79b99d1a3755a330e0328fba52a14a47c05509d0">In hindsight, such protectionist measures look ridiculous. But the motivation for protectionism is exactly the same today as it was then.</p>
</section></body></html>