<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Achieving the Impossible</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P700101702000000000000000000417C" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a6ae6b46745ca164ba8f1d71828a585ee211bbf94"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700101702000000000000000000417D" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000417D" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/abde9b6439f41047213b0dd69afee533160e904bb">Achieving the Impossible</h1></header>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000417E" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000417E" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a6714d4498256965efbc58f0b78d612e80a08bc4d">Check it out. <i>After trading, Jill and Marie are both better off than when they were each self-sufficient</i>. Before trade, the best Jill could produce with 20 loaves of bread was 60 logs of wood (point <i>D</i>). After trade, Jill has the same amount of bread and more wood. Before trade, the best Marie could produce with 20 loaves of bread was just 10 logs of wood (point <i>C</i>). After trade, Marie has the same amount of bread and more wood.</p>
<p id="P700101702000000000000000000417F" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P700101702000000000000000000417F" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ac5120d4fc2e2e8aca294ac71e3f391107036360f">Jill and Marie each reach a combination of wood and bread that was impossible before trade. After specialization and trade, each can now consume a combination of wood and bread that is outside of her production possibilities frontier. Voluntary trade is not a zero-sum game, where one person’s gain is the other’s loss. Both traders gain.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004180" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004180" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a98a8b68a166ef40b582ef615303df6d498763380">What is remarkable is that these <i>gains from trade,</i> which improve both Jill’s and Marie’s standard of living (with more wood they can stay warmer or build better houses), <i>happen without anyone working harder, or without any improvement in technology or new inputs</i>. Both are better off because they have made smart decisions to specialize and trade, rather than each trying to produce only what each will consume. Both can have toast for breakfast (bread roasted over a fire), even though each produced only part of what was necessary to make the breakfast.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000004181" data-uri="M13_COHE5320_02_SE_C13.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004181" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/ab8776982e8c2f1e965c1c227fadff2785c39f7c7">Notice also that there are gains for both Jill and Marie, even though Jill can produce more bread and wood than Marie can. Despite Jill’s absolute advantage in producing everything at lower cost, there are still differences in opportunity costs, or comparative advantage. <i>Comparative advantage is the key to mutually beneficial gains from trade</i>. The trade can be between individuals, or between countries. That is why China trades with Canada, even though China can produce most things more cheaply than Canada can. There are still differences in comparative advantage based on opportunity costs. Trade allows us all to work smarter and live better.</p>
</section></body></html>