<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Structural Deficits (and Surpluses) at Potential GDP</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7001017020000000000000000003D33" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a39444bfa7f29887c3c2db4788f4b8960d7d480e4"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7001017020000000000000000003D34" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D34" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a8a1526a96c954e33f2a3069a93114a3b2da36c67">Structural Deficits (and Surpluses) at Potential GDP</h1></header>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D35" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D35" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a2902e87ee030f18b258a0d3df389417b4879c092">The deficits (and surpluses) that most concern economists are not cyclical but structural. A <a id="P7001017020000000000000000003D36" class="keyword" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D36" epub:type="keyword" href="fileP70010170200000000000000000044F0.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000004701" data-offlinesupport="yes">structural deficit</a> occurs when governments spend more than their revenues <i>even while the economy is at potential GDP and growing steadily</i>. Structural deficits are not caused by business cycles. They are built into the structure of government taxes, transfers, and spending programs.</p>

<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D3D" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D3D" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a73dc62ffeb5ece8293e6a8e3960cb436d250733b">A <b>structural surplus</b> occurs when there is a government budget surplus even while the economy is at potential GDP and growing steadily.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D3E" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D3E" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/afa8d99a034986f84425b1fc12983597359fc9f8f">There are problems with both structural deficits and structural surpluses. Structural deficits are ongoing. Even when the economy is at full employment, the government has to borrow money. There are no offsetting surpluses. As deficits accumulate, the government must go deeper into debt. The Government of Canada had continuous structural deficits for 20 years between 1975 and 1995. Total deficits (cyclical deficits plus structural deficits) ranged from roughly $6 billion to $39 billion <i>every year</i>. As a result, Canada’s accumulated debt increased, from about $34 billion in 1975–1976 to $554 billion in 1995–1996. Think about the interest payments on a debt of $554 billion borrowed dollars! And every Canadian has to help pay for it through taxes!</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D3F" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D3F" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a76744aad5a20e48bb2e6fe8283b276aeeae850aa">Structural surpluses also accumulate over time, raising the question of why government keeps collecting taxpayers’ money that it is not spending. From 2006 until the Global Financial Crisis, Canada’s Conservative government had deliberately small structural surpluses. They used those structural surpluses to start paying down the accumulated debt from past deficits.</p>
<p id="P7001017020000000000000000003D40" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D40" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/aabc7d68cdac388f7eff479d8ea719392822b0d87">But we are getting ahead of the story. To fully understand these issues, we have to examine Canada’s national debt — and that’s next.<span class="pagebreak" id="P7001017020000000000000000003D41" title="371" data-uri="M12_COHE5320_02_SE_C12.xhtml#P7001017020000000000000000003D41" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"></span></p>
</section></body></html>