<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Downward Demand-Pull Deflation</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000022A7" class="level2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a26321e408f5371b97996e79b3b1a34461620bcfd"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000022A8" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000022A8" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a53e71961b8d00c0046909ba609c4658f54c45c39">Downward Demand-Pull Deflation</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000022A9" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000022A9" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a0623568723032b929f1830d834f2e9c943ecb1f9">For years corresponding to points on the bottom right of the Phillips Curve, the demand-pull story works in reverse — decreases in demand pull prices down. During contractions, if demand for output decreases relative to supply, businesses have unsold products and services. Businesses may cut their prices to try to sell the inventory that is piling up in warehouses. Businesses will also cut back production, laying off workers. Real GDP falls, and unemployment increases. There is a recessionary gap.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000022AA" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000022AA" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a215a2ff53c5f10ca3a37aca169b802efaae56315">It is difficult to get a raise when people all around you are out of work and eager to find a job or take yours. Increased unemployment puts downward pressure on wages, allowing businesses to cut output prices or have smaller price increases. High unemployment means consumers have less income to spend, putting more downward pressure on output prices. Decreased demand causes surpluses of unsold products and services, leading businesses to cut prices, or at least not raise them as quickly. There is a bust instead of a boom, with higher unemployment and lower inflation.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000022AB" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000022AB" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a94e5a5057e3e88c9e2de11fa67446eb8ab0aa993">The demand-pull inflation story explains the Phillips Curve, with its trade-off between unemployment and inflation. In years with lower unemployment (strong demand), inflation is higher. In years with higher unemployment (weak demand), inflation is lower.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000022AC" data-uri="M07_COHE5320_02_SE_C07.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000022AC" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a80e495d0358b000a4b6e42e7b50bd1850d71c0e2">Economists were very confident about this idea of a trade-off between unemployment and inflation. Then the 1970s happened.</p>
</section></body></html>