<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head class="brix-bundled">

<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.39.146"/>
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for etext2 version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=etext2 by PXE Tools 1.39.146, partial=false-->
<title>Missed Targets and Business Cycles</title><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/sepia.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/night.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/></head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70010170200000000000000000027EF" class="level1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/af968d377b83839f5e9ab8960a3e85a456636faaa"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70010170200000000000000000027F0" data-uri="M08_COHE5320_02_SE_C08.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000027F0" epub:type="title" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a0d88d9569ba2588be8d924bbceb8131be1961dd8">Missed Targets and Business Cycles</h1></header>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000027F1" data-uri="M08_COHE5320_02_SE_C08.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000027F1" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a23260770e0c848d09740a16dd39c7b5aa448a2d6">Business suppliers will be kicking themselves if aggregate demand does not match short-run aggregate supply at the potential GDP target (<i>LAS</i>). Maybe they produced too many products and services that are sitting unsold on shelves and the price level falls below expectations. Or business suppliers did not produce enough to satisfy unexpected consumer demand and the price level rises above expectations. Consumer household demanders will also be kicking themselves. Either businesses begin laying off workers and reducing consumer households’ incomes, or consumers will be disappointed at not finding enough of the ­products and services they planned to buy. There is disappointment all around.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000027F2" data-uri="M08_COHE5320_02_SE_C08.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000027F2" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a31e007d1932ebbc78324aae30b3e0e7e150299ad">When expectations are not realized, macroeconomic outcomes do not work out as planned. What the macroeconomic players expected were smart choices turn out to be not-smart choices. Adjustments are necessary to get back to smart choices, and these adjustments are the stuff business cycles are made of. ­Recessions and expansions — the world of Keynes’s business cycles — are the result of mismatches between aggregate demand and aggregate supply.</p>
<p id="P70010170200000000000000000027F3" data-uri="M08_COHE5320_02_SE_C08.xhtml#P70010170200000000000000000027F3" resource="http://purl.org/pearson/asset/a79caf9d1119a84474dbdbf94856ec97dd97cf44d">There are four mismatch cases that move an economy away from the long-run equilibrium targets: a negative demand shock, a positive demand shock, a negative supply shock, and a positive supply shock.</p>
<!--EOF:P70010170200000000000000000027F4-->

<!--EOF:P7001017020000000000000000002805-->

<!--EOF:P700101702000000000000000000281A-->

<!--EOF:P700101702000000000000000000282A-->

</section></body></html>